- EBS (Elastic Block Store) Volume is a network drive for EC2 instances.
- Allows instances to persist data even after termination.
- Can only be mounted to one instance at a time (at the CCP level).
- Bound to a specific availability zone (AZ).
- Think of them as a "network USB stick".
- Provides 30 GB of free EBS storage per month (General Purpose SSD or Magnetic).
- Network drive, not a physical drive.
- Uses network communication with instances, which may involve latency.
- Easily detachable and attachable to EC2 instances.
- Locked to a specific Availability Zone (AZ).
	- _example_: a volume in us-east-1a cannot be attached to us-east-1b.
- To move across AZs, first snapshot the volume.
- Provisioned capacity in terms of size (GBs) and IOPS (Input/Output Operations Per Second).
- Billed for all provisioned capacity.
- Capacity can be increased over time as needed.

### Volume Types

- **General Purpose SSD**:
    - Balanced price and performance.
    - Ideal for a wide range of workloads.
    - Use cases: Boot volumes, small to medium-sized databases, development and test environments.
    - - **gp2**
	    - **Burst IOPS up to 3,000**
	    - **3 IOPS per GB**
	    - **Max IOPS: 16,000** (at 5,334 GB)
    - **gp3**
	    - **3,000 lOPS baseline** (max 16,000 - independent of size)
	    - 125 MiB/s throughput (max 1000MiB/s - independent of size)

- **Provisioned IOPS SSD (io2/io1)**:
    - Designed for I/O-intensive workloads requiring high performance.
    - Provides consistent IOPS (Input/Output Operations Per Second).
    - Use cases: Large relational databases (e.g., MongoDB, MySQL), critical production applications.
    - **io1** or **io2**
	    - Storage: **4 GB - 16 TB**
	    - Max IOPS: **64,000 for Nitro EC2 instances** & **32,000 for non-Nitro**
	    - **50 lOPS per GB** (64,000 IOPS at 1,280 GB)
	    - io2 have more durability and more IOPS per GB (at the same price as io1)
	- **io2 Block Express**
	    - Storage: 4 GiB - **64 TB**
	    - Sub-millisecond latency
	    - Max IOPS: 256,000
	    - 1000 lOPS per GB

- **Throughput Optimized HDD (st1)**:
    - Low-cost HDD storage with frequently accessed workloads.
    - Designed for throughput-intensive workloads (e.g., big data, data warehouses).
    - Use cases: Big data, data warehouses, log processing.
    - **Note: Never use this as boot volume**

- **Cold HDD (sc1)**:
    - Lowest cost HDD storage.
    - Designed for less frequently accessed workloads.
    - Use cases: Infrequent access, large streaming workloads, file server backups.
    - **Note: Never use this as boot volume**

- **Magnetic (standard)**:
    - Previous generation, lowest cost per gigabyte.
    - Suitable for workloads where data is accessed infrequently.
    - Use cases: Legacy systems, non-critical applications.
    - **Note: Never use this as boot volume**

- **NVMe SSD (nvme)**:
    - High-performance storage for instances built on the Nitro System.
    - Provides low-latency performance.
    - Use cases: High-performance computing (HPC), machine learning, data analytics.

### Snapshots

- **Data Lifecycle Manager (DLM)** can be used to automate the creation, retention, and deletion of snapshots of EBS volumes
- Snapshots are incremental
- Only the most recent snapshot is required to restore the volume

### Encryption

- For Encrypted EBS volumes
    - Data at rest is encrypted
    - **Data in-flight between the instance and the volume is encrypted**
    - All snapshots are encrypted
    - All volumes created from the snapshot are encrypted
- Encrypt an un-encrypted EBS volume
    - Create an EBS snapshot of the volume
    - Copy the EBS snapshot and encrypt the new copy
    - Create a new EBS volume from the encrypted snapshot (the volume will be automatically encrypted)
- **Note: All EBS supports encryption, but not all instance support encryption.**

### Instance Store

- Hardware storage directly attached to EC2 instance - cannot be detached and attached to another instance
- Highest IOPS of any available storage - millions of IOPS
- Ephemeral storage - loses data when the instance is stopped, **hibernated** or terminated
- Good for buffer, cache, scratch data, temporary content

